# Technical Design of the Discover Limerick App
The main technologies used in the Discover Limerick app are:
* Advanced UI elements such as fragments
* Google Maps API
* Google Firebase Database
* Google Firebase Firestore
* Google Firebase Authentication
* Google Text-to-Speech(TTS) Engine
* LocationProvider
* Connectivity Manager
## Technical Design Choices
Our main technical decision was to use fragments instead of activities in the application. This was to facilitate smoother navigation and better better lifecycle management. We chose to implement a splash screen on launching the app. This is to provide a better experience for users, as looking at a bright white screen, as is often shown on app startup, looks unappealing and can irritate the eyes. The splash screen is only shown while the app is loading and does not increase this load time. For media file handling, we chose Glide over Picasso. This is because Glide, generally, has lower memory consumption, integrates better with the fragment lifecycle, and supports thumbnails and animated gifs. We chose to store the information our app accesses in a cloud database, as opposed to storing on the device and using a library such as SQLite. This was to faciltate easier updates to the database. If the information was stored on the device, an app update would be necessary everytime this information was changed. The downside of this is that our app is unable to access this information without an internet connection. This was a cost we had to incur, as database updates are likely to be much more frequent than releases of new versions of the app. This also saves on space. The size of the app would be quite substantial if it were stored on the device.
## Lessons Learned
The most important lesson we learned during the development of the Discover Limerick app was the importance of the design phase. It is important to understand properly how the various components and APIs work before any coding begins. This allows for better planning of how to integrate the various elements of the program, particularly those that operate asynchronously. If we were to restart this project we would put extra effort into the design phase, as we believe this would result in fewer iterations of the development cycle and improve the performance of or app. Many issues were solved dynamically, on the fly, that would likely have been avoided with better planning. As mentioned previously, a main area of difficulty were asynchronous operations, and as our app heavily involved interaction with a database, these issues appeared quite often. If starting the app again, we would also research much more thoroughly the APIs available to us. We admit we likely rushed into development very hastily and missed opportunities to leverage existing frameworks. The main example of this is that we did not make use of the Google Places API. This is a powerful tool, but we are still proud of what we created without it and believe it is still a quite useful application.
